# Critical Questions and Embodied Reflections: Trans Visual Culture Today—A Roundtable

*Art Journal* (IF 0.2 Submission Guide >) **Pub Date: 2021-10-02**, DOI:10.1080/00043249.2021.1947702
Ace Lehner

Trans as an identity is not assigned to us by how we look; instead, it is something we self-proclaim.1 Trans is a rejection of surface aesthetics connoting essence, truth, or authenticity. Trans as a methodology provides a template for decolonizing the privileging of sight and moving toward a new understanding of bodies and visual culture. C. Riley Snorton has noted that trans people create a “crisis of visuality,” raising questions about where the “truth” of a body is located.2 That is to say, can identities be understood through visual apprehension of the body? If so, is identity inscribed on a body’s “surface” or in one’s “essence”? Transness throws into question the way cultures ideologically descended from the colonial project have sutured “reality” to the “privileging of sight.”3 A need to be understood outside the current modes of apprehension is at the crux of trans visual culture. Studying trans visual culture prompts interdisciplinary trans visual studies analysis and provokes questions and methodological innovations that will undoubtedly resonate far beyond trans visual studies. Recently, there have been major exhibitions exploring transness, gender, and queerness, all of which have highlighted the work of trans interventions in visual culture. Chris Vargas’s Museum of Transgender Hirstory and Art (MOTHA) has been ongoing since 2013. The New Museum in New York presented a blockbuster show titled Trigger: Gender as a Tool and a Weapon (2017–18). The Hayward Gallery in London ran an exhibition entitled Kiss My Genders (2019), and the same year, the Oakland Museum of California showcased Queer California: Untold Stories. While not all of these exhibitions were exclusively trans, they mark a growing interest in expanding understandings of gender, queerness, and trans identity in the art world and have helped promote an everincreasing list of trans artists, including Niv Acosta, Travis Alabanza, ALOK, Boychild, micha cárdenas, Cassils, Yve Laris Cohen, Vaginal Davis, Harry Dodge, Zackary Drucker, Anaïs Duplan, Rhys Ernst, Edie Fake, Jess Fan, Yishay Garbasz, EO Gill, Kamra Hakim, Asher Hartman, Silas Howard, Juliana Huxtable, Evan Ifekoya, NIC Kay, Rocco Kayiatos, Young Joon Kwak, Joseph Liatela, Amos Mac, Wynne Neilly, Elle Pérez, Vivek Shraya, Buzz Slutzky, Spiral Theory Test Kitchen, Tourmaline, Lorenzo Triburgo, Wu Tsang, Del la Grace Volcano, Syrus Marcus Ware, Kiyan Williams, and Geo Wyeth. Cinema, television, and social media have also been part of the proliferation of trans visual culture.4 Notable instances of mainstream trans visual culture in recent decades include *Paris Is Burning* (1990), directed by Jennie Livingston; *Boys Don’t Cry* (1999), directed by Kimberly Peirce; Susan Stryker’s *Screaming Queens: The Riots at Compton’s Cafeteria* (2005); Sean Baker’s *Tangerine* (2015), featuring trans actresses Kitani Kiki Rodriguez and Mya Taylor; Rhys Ernst’s *Adam* (2019); and Amy Scholder and Sam Feder’s documentary on trans representation, *Disclosure* (2020). There have also been several films in which cis actors have been cast (problematically) as trans characters, such as *Dallas Buyers Club* (2013) and *The Danish Girl* (2015), while the 2021 film *Together Together* stars trans actress and comedian Patti Harrison as a cisgender woman. Significant as well is *Orange Is the New Black* (2013–19), which starred Laverne Cox and helped launch her trans celebrity. Along with Janet Mock, Caitlin Jenner, and Elliot Page, Cox is one of several trans icons in mainstream visual culture. Increasingly, trans artists move across visual culture, working in social media, the art world, cinema and as activists, as in the case of Chella Man.

**Notes**
1. Trans enables otherwise potentially discrete categories of transgender, agender, transsexual, genderqueer, gender fluid, gender nonconforming, nonbinary, and beyond to identify with an intentionally de-essentialized constituency to create affinity among people who reject the gender assigned to them. Trans is defined further as an identity that facilitates coalition building among those who resist gender oppression, racism, and classism, and is deployed to unseat the notion that cis is a necessary given. See Jian Neo Chen, *Trans Exploits: Trans of Color Cultures and Technologies in Movement, Anima: Critical Race Studies Otherwise* (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2019). For more information on the terms “trans,” “transgender,” and “transsexual,” see Reina Gossett, Eric A. Stanley, and Johanna Burton, eds., *Trap Door: Trans Cultural Production and the Politics of Visibility, Critical Anthologies in Art and Culture* (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2017); J. Halberstam, *Trans\*: A Quick and Quirky Account of Gender Variability* (Oakland: University of California Press, 2018); Kate Bornstein and S. Bear Bergman, eds., *Gender Outlaws: The Next Generation* (Berkeley, CA: Seal Press, 2010); Susan Stryker, “Transgender History,” in *The Transgender Studies Reader 2*, ed. Susan Stryker and Aren Z. Aizura (New York: Routledge, 2013); Nicholas M. Teich, *Transgender 101: A Simple Guide to a Complex Issue* (New York: Columbia University Press, 2012); David Valentine, *Imagining Transgender: An Ethnography of a Category* (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2007), 29–65; Susan Stryker and Stephen Whittle, eds., *The Transgender Studies*
